The first fatigue point is actually in
the strongest range. What's important
about that is it gets the central
nervous system accustomed to firing more
muscle tissue. You will not get this
effect from a
[Music]
weight. If you've ever had trouble
building muscle quickly or building
muscle at all, if your interest is
getting stronger, training smarter,
better nutrition, getting more out of
your efforts, you're at the right place.
My name is Dr. John Jquish and I'm here
to help. I'm going to give you the key
to better results. Today we're going to
be talking about building more muscle in
less time. Now, everything you'll read
that's accurate, and I always back up
everything I say with references, and
you'll see those in the details of the
YouTube video. I'll always put the
references there. I want to talk about
what's efficient and what's not. There's
I'm going to quote Louis Simmons. Louis
Simmons is the founder of Westside
Barbell, most successful group of
athletes ever, absolute sports
performance dominance. They have out of
that one gym in Columbus, Ohio, Louis
Simmons created a culture where they
broke more world records than any
country on earth, including the United
States. What Louie would say is, if it's
not making you better, it's making you
worse. And the reason he said that was
because if you're putting effort towards
something, you only have so much effort
in your body for any given day. If
you're putting effort towards something
that's not going to have a result, well,
now you've created inroads in your
recovery
ability, you've taken an effort that you
could have put towards something
productive and put it into something
that's not very productive. And
ultimately, you're going to do worse as
a result of that. So, you really have to
pick what you do carefully. And I want
to emphasize the fact that most people
do not get results from standard
fitness. So there's a key statistic came
out last year from lifehack.com. They
did a big survey. When people go start a
fitness program, it typically takes 90
days, 3 months, 90 days for 90% of the
people to quit. So, are they quitting
because they got great results? Probably
not. They're probably quitting because
they got no results. And that seems to
be the standard. In fact, I remember
when I went to a gym, I I work out
actually right here now. I don't go to a
gym anymore, but when I did go to gyms
when I was younger, I remember seeing
people who I would see year after year
after year, and they never looked any
different. So, if that at all feels like
yourself, pay attention to this. If you
put on muscle easily, maybe some of the
things I'm saying don't really apply to
you. But what I want to talk about is
efficiency of effort. So, the most
important thing to know when you go down
the path of getting stronger, getting
leaner, deciding you're going to make
your health like one of the number one
priorities in your life, which really
means the number one priority in your
life, you need to focus on something
called variable resistance. Now, the
reason you want to focus on a variable
resistance is as you engage in exercise,
and I'm just going to use a pressing
movement because that's easy to demo
right here. if I'm pushing away from
myself as determined by a couple of
different studies as I put them
together. So, it's a combination of
observations made by the NANS database,
some things that the American College of
Sports Medicine has put out versus my
medical device research. So, I put out a
medical device about a decade ago called
Ostetorm. That's a big company now.
There is 300 clinics in 15 different
countries. That was to treat bone
density. So what I did was it was hyper
loading of the muscularkeeletal system
trigger bone development. However, it
pointed out that humans are about seven
times stronger in this range of motion
than they are in this range of motion.
So strong to weak range. People often
call this the stretched range of motion
because see how I'm stretching my
pectoral here. So what we want is a
weight that changes as we move. This is
super important. So because you have
such a difference in your output
capacity here, what you want is
something that is relevant here and here
and here and here. So what we do is
through bands or chains and a bar. You
have to have a bar because you want to
keep your wrist in neutral. So don't
just grab a band and throw it around
your back and think you can push away
from yourself because this is going to
happen to your wrists. you'll hurt your
wrists. And anything that's
uncomfortable triggers something called
neural inhibition. Neural inhibition is
when your central nervous system sees
that you're either going to create an
injury or you're on your way to create
an injury and it actually shuts muscle
off. So bands by themselves worthless.
You you want a bar that's hooked to
bands and as you're pushing away from
yourself, you're getting more force here
and less force here. So it enables you
to as you go to fatigue, the first
fatigue point is actually in the
strongest range. What's important about
that is it gets the central nervous
system accustomed to firing more muscle
tissue. You will not get this effect
from a weight. There are certain drills
you can do to get this. A lot of them
have some danger associated with them.
This does not. When you're using
variable resistance, the first failure
point is really more of a central
nervous system type thing. But then as
you go to fatigue in diminishing range.
So first you fatigue a full range then
closer to yourself with each repetition
it gets shorter. So as these repetitions
get shorter you have more fatigue points
in that stretched range of motion which
is the most anabolic. So anything other
than fatiguing right here is a
lengthened partial. So we do lengthened
partials as we go to fatigue in
diminishing range. Very powerful
stimulus. So you may get five plus
fatigue points in one set of exercise
with a fresh muscle with your first, you
know, working set. So that's a lot more
stimuli for growth with a muscle that's
filled with glycogen and ready to give
you the absolute most performance. Now,
you compound that over a couple of sets
and you you may have 25 fatigue points
for one muscle group in one workout. And
that's going to be a very powerful
stimulus for growth. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. We've got the answer
for you.